``There are some concerns regarding the boundary layer flow modeling. 
Both the need to include subcooled boiling assisted boundary layers 
without having to model or track specific voids, and the need to avoid 
small spatial scales near the wall even without bubble formation and 
collapse, may limit the utility of the proposed approach if the speed 
improvements associated with the coarsest levels cannot be achieved 
over a significant portion of the tank domain.''

It is agreed that a practical number of adaptive mesh refinement levels
will still yield a finest resolution level that still necessitates
that sub-scale boundary layer models be used.  Our adaptive
multiphase code already has the following kinds of related
models implemented:

a. ``A ghost cell method for turbulent compressible viscous flows on
adaptive Cartesian grids,'' Hu, Zhao, Liu, Procedia Engineering (2013)
(implementing the ``law-of-the-wall'' model, such as Troshko and Hassan,
``Law of the wall for two-phase turbulent boundary layers,''
Intl. J. Heat and Mass Transfer, 2001, on an ``embedded'' boundary grid).

b. ``Direct numerical simulation of bubble dynamics in subcooled 
and near-saturated convective nucleate boiling,'' Lal, Sato, and Niceno,
Intl. J. Heat and Fluid Flow, 2015.

c. ``A depletable micro-layer model for nucleate pool boiling,''
Sato and Niceno, Journal of Computational Physics, 2015.

d. Bicer and Sou

That being said, we have recently developed a very efficient 
``super-mesh'' algorithm,

``A moment-of-fluid method for diffusion equations on irregular domains
in multi-material systems,'' Y. Liu, M. Sussman, Y. Lian, M.Y. Hussaini,
Journal of Computational Physics, Available online 23 October 2019,

which will enable us to effortlessly introduce high aspect ratio supermesh
elements into the thermal/boundary layer regions of a block structured
rectangular adaptive mesh refinement grid.  Also, we have recently migrated
from 2016 BoxLib to 2019 AMReX libraries which enables us to exploit a
scalable ``particle container'' class for tracking microscopic seed bubbles
at the wall.

 
Technology Transition: The proposal lacks technology transition discussion. 






Technical Approach: Although the experiments on magnetically levitated droplets and the cryogenic helium flow pipe would be interesting cases to verify a new type of thermo fluid model, they are not representative of the thermal/fluid conditions in a large cryofluid tank in microgravity. These experiments add significant effort to the work plan but do not serve to validate the model for large tanks in microgravity. 

