Dynamic Wetting of flexible, adaptive, and switchable surfaces

or

Dynamic De-wetting of flexible, adaptive, and switchable surfaces

surfaces: elastomers, hydrogels, surfaces with brush-like structures

adaptive surfaces change their physical chemical properties in the presence of
a liquid.

Switchable surfaces can repeat their surface energy or structure while 
changing external influences change almost suddenly and thus, e.g. 
induce a periodic wetting dynamics.  The switching operation may e.g. be 
triggered by electric fields or light radiation.

Surfactants in the wetting fluids can effects the overall dynamics.

Multi-scale behavior is present.

The surfaces of many plants and animals are flexible and
wipe off very well. Water droplets pearl very quickly
from them, e.g. Air cushion in fur or plumage
which are essential for vital properties
Heat insulation and flying ability are necessary. The adap-
tion of their wettability to ambient conditions.
allows many carnivorous plants, if sufficient
humidity to capture insects (Fig. 1). The precise
se control of wetting and wetting is also
important processes; including e.g. Coating, adhesive
ben, printing and flotation (in mineral processing or
recycling). With increasing miniaturization fluid
technical systems (such as microfluidics, 3D printing, lab-on
a-chip) gain controllable wetting properties
soft materials are even more important, since small ones
Dimensions dominate interface effects. So far
Wetting especially with regard to surface topography

Propagation of low molecular weight liquids such as water on a substrate 
depends on Interplay of all acting interface forces as well as the 
microscopic topographical and chemical structure of the surface.

Flexible surfaces can change their profile reversibly when they are filled 
with a liquid But there is no mass transfer via the solid-liquid boundary
surface, i. e. the phase boundary is maintained and the substrate changes 
its physico- not chemical properties. The flexibility of a surface 
influences its wetting through a liquid, since the substrate surface 
by interfacial and capillary forces is deformed (Fig. 5) [A5] [12, 13, 14]. 
Only on rigid solid substrates is this deformation
negligible (Fig. 2 (a)). Polymer melts, hydrogels and organogels 
are classic Examples of planar deformable surfaces. The contact with a 
liquid causes the Formation of a wetting ring (Fig. 5 (a)) whose height, 
in the case of a purely elastic Substrate inversely proportional to 
the elasticity increases [A6] [13]. The local deformation is often
so great that depending on surface energies and substrate theology 
repercussions on the Wetting properties; One speaks of 
elastocapillary effects [15, 16, 17, 18].

The dynamics of the drop are linked to the dynamics of the
mesh ring (Fig. 6) and the slow drop of the
ring outside the drop may lead to a change in
effect between individual drops [A7] [19]. To the
To understand the dynamics of such processes must also be
Considered mechanisms of energy dissipation in the substrate
become [A8] [20]. In this context, changing
effects with phase transition dynamics such as condensation
Fig. 5: Drops on (a) an on / evaporation of a simple liquid [21] or phase
ner elastic and (b) one separation in mixtures [22] plays an important role. 
For example, can ner liquid-impregnated
the movement of drops is a strong, potentially diverging dissidence
Surface. Capillary forces are cause pation within a soft substrate [A8]. 
In front each for training a Recently, on soft substrates also novel modes of
wetting ring.
Contact line movement such as time-periodic slip-detention cycles
(stick-slip movement) observed, which are only partially 
understood [A8] [23, 24].

Liquid-impregnated surfaces (slippery liquid-infused
surfaces) are hydrophobic surfaces, gels, porous media,
etc. used with a secondary fluid as a lubricant.
are layered [25, 26]. As a result, the liability is reduced so much
that drops of a primary fluid are already
Angle α to move from a few degrees [A9] [27, 28]. Around
Drop forms a wetting ring of the secondary fluid
(Fig. 5 (b)). Its height and lateral extent depend on
the elasticity and viscosity of the secondary fluid and 
Fig. 6: Dynamics of a Benet
Influence wetting dynamics significantly. Because the droplet ring.
movement is accompanied by a continuous reorganization of the 
wetting ring requires an understanding of the drop motion the 
detailed characterization and modeling of the
Wetting ring [A10].

Central questions are: How does the dissipation of energy when the 
drop moves?  Viscosity and thickness of the secondary fluid layer? 
The secondary fluid is e.g.  prevented from flowing off by surface porosity 
or polymer brushes. How to influence this the movement of the primary drop?

A variety of natural surfaces are micro- and nanostructured
like the feathers of waterbirds [29], the wings of
insects and the leaves of plants (Fig. 1) [30]. Often observed
one at structured surfaces, that drops of water already
for α <10 ◦ roll off the surface and a contact angle
θ e> 150 ◦ form [A11]. Such surfaces are considered super-
designated hydrophobic. Their microstructure is such that
Air cushion trapped under the overlying liquid
- the so-called Cassie condition (Fig. 7) [31]. however
All currently used models of non-deformability are shown in Fig. 7: 
Coupling of elastic ren surface structures. The coupling of the 
capillary forces and the capillarity of a to the elasticity of 
structured substrates is still largely fens on a superhydropho-
understood. Already it is foreseeable that the study ben surface.
flexible surfaces to become an important international research priority
becomes. There are two reasons. First, a better understanding of the 
surfaces in the Plant and animal life, the wetting of medically 
relevant surfaces such as the walls of (Blood) capillaries and stents, 
and cell adhesion to structured elastic surfaces needed. Second, flexibility 
introduces new wetting parameters as a further control parameter
Ways to precisely control wetting.

START HERE NEXT TOP of PAGE 6

Already in the analysis of the contact line region simple Fluids
is a differentiation of the considered length scales important. 
Over 1-2 nm are even the simplest liquids often ordered molecularly 
at interfaces. Specific molecular Interactions such as hydrogen bonding 
and steric effects dominate. This is shown, inter alia. in periodic, 
exponentially Dense density fluctuations in the direction orthogonal 
to Substrate (Fig. 4). Up to a few 10 nm, the shape of the liquid 
becomes Fig. 4: A nanotrope surface by surface forces such as van 
der Waals or has density near the substrate.
Electrostatic bilayer forces, which are between the coatings on.
Solid-state liquid and the liquid-gas interface ken. Only on larger 
scales is the surface of the liquid only affected by the surface
energy described. Macroscopically, their shape is defined by the 
Young-Dupre and Laplace tracks.
of classical continuum mechanics determined while on mesoscopic scale
the description is supplemented by wetting or binding potential
[4, 11]. These in turn can themselves from microscopic density 
functional theories [A3] or be determined from molecular dynamic 
calculations [A4]. Corresponding multiscale theoretical and numerical 
treatments must be significantly extended to the dynamic behavior of 
liquids on flexible, adaptive and switchable surfaces
to study systematically.

In the following we will discuss the wetting of flexible, adaptive and 
switchable surfaces separated. The boundaries between the three 
substrate types are not sharp, however fluently. Therefore, a 
common treatment in the SPP applied for makes sense.






[A3] A. P. Hughes, U. Thiele, and A. J. Archer. Influence of the fluid 
structure on the binding potential: Comparing liquid drop profiles from 
density functional theory with results from mesoscopic
theory. J. Chem. Phys., 146:064705, 2017.
(disjoining pressure?)
--------------------------------------------------------------------
For all the proposals, experimental or numerical:
i) velocity vs. time for relaxation of contact line or triple point
system from non-equilibrium to equilibrium configuration?
ii) force per unit length to withdraw a solid object (flexible or inflexible)
from a liquid bath at a prescribed velocity?
iii) for liquid lens case - magnitude of elongational flow needed to maintain
a liquid lens diameter at a value not corresponding to its equilibrium 
value?
iv) rate of condensation or evaporation at a triple point?

For the dynamic contact angle problem (perhaps undergoing phase change) there
are many articles that describe a transition region from the static
contact angle configuration to an apparent (observed) contact angle condition.
In numerical models, people implement dynamic contact angle models for
receeding or advancing contact lines at which phase change can be taking
place.  This transition region covers a few nanometers to microns.  
See Figure 3 of the article by Dupont and Legendre.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
REVIEWER FORM

DFG- Priority Program SPP 2171 
“Dynamic wetting of flexible, adaptive and switchable surfaces”

Reviewer: 

Address:

Reference-No. Proposal:

Name Applicant: 


Please rate the proposals you have been assigned to using the following scale:

5: outstanding, should be funded with highest priority 
   (to be used only once per reviewer)
4: very good, should be funded
3: good, should be funded, if financial restrictions allow
2: (in principle) good, but some points have to be discussed
1: poor, should not be funded
0: not within the scope of the priority program

Please focus on the following aspects:

1.	Quality of the project and the preliminary work
2.	Qualification of the applicants
3.	Objectives and Work Program
4.	Scientific Contribution of the project to the main 
        aims of priority program
5.	Recommendation Concerning the Extent of Funding

END REVIEWER FORM
-----------------------------------------------------------
1. Aland
University of Dresden

Wetting of flexible substrates (soft wetting)

Mokbel, Abels, and Aland Eulerian-Eulerian FSI 
Eulerian structure algorithms do not preserve the reversibility properties
of the structures that are being simulated!

This statement does not apply to "break-up" in microfluidic devices for 
example.  The appropriate time scales have to be resolved.  On the other
hand, if the problem is simple, then one can do some kind of body fitted
implicit formulation (which has been done) which goes after steady state
solutions.

"Hence, the time step size is not controlled by the desired accuracy of 
the solution, but by the stability of the numerical algorithm, resulting 
oftentimes in admissible time step sizes being several orders of
magnitude smaller than physically necessary"

"To validate the dynamics, we will collaborate with H. van Brummelen and 
S. Karpitschka (MPI Göttingen, within the SPP). S. Karpitschka can 
provide dynamic morphologies of the wetting ridge for moving droplets as 
well as measurements of droplet speeds for variously-sized droplets on 
inclined surfaces, see also WP4"

"Together with S. Karpitschka (within the SPP) we plan to reveal the 
physical mechanisms governing the dynamics of soft wetting. Thereby 
we plan to work in a close bilateral subsequent collaboration, where 
alternating experiments and simulations inspire, support and assist 
each other in a feedback loop, leading to a gradual increase of 
understanding of soft wetting. As detailed in his proposal, S. Karpitschka 
can provide data on droplet speed on inclined surfaces, time-resolved
profiles of dynamic wetting ridges and dynamic strain fields during 
drop motion."

"WP5: Elastic structured surfaces"
"Now, we aim to proceed to elastic substrates and plan a 
close collaboration with K. Harth (within the SPP) who will 
consider wetting of micro-structured subtrates.  K. Harth will provide 
strain fields of the elastic deformation in the bulk and on the surface 
as well as high resolution imaging data of drop shapes. In the start 
of the collaboration, we will conduct a small validation study 
considering the impact of a single drop on a planar elastic substrate. 
Using the same materials, we will then move to structured surfaces 
with elastic pillars (10-100 μ m) and compare numerical and experimental 
data. We will consider a single drop moving by substrate inclination and 
investigate the inuence of substrate elasticity on the drop velocity and 
at the pinning and detachment dynamics of single pillars."

Disjoining pressure? (cite the heat pipe researcher) is epsilon (11), (13),
(14) realistic or numerical?  How are constitutive models and parameters 
found? Nothing in the proposal on "Switchable surfaces"? What if liquids are
made up of exotic polymer chains?

Phase field model for the ALE formulation too?

Distributed computing?

machine learning?

The numerical methodology or modeling is not really new or compelling.

mass is conserved, but not volume (volume conservation depends on epsilon)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
i. Quality of the project and the preliminary work.

The following preliminary articles are of high quality:

D. Mokbel , H. Abels, S. Aland . A phase field model for fluid structure 
interaction. J.  Comp. Phys. 372 (2018)

S. Aland , F. Chen. An efficient and energy stable scheme for a 
phase field model for the moving contact line problem. 
Int. J. Numer. Meth. Fluids. 81 (2015)

S. Aland, Time integration for diffuse interface models for two-phase 
flow. J. Comp. Phys.  262 (2014)

The project is of very good quality but I have some questions.

question 1: The FSI algorithm has an Eulerian representation for the structure
 (I look at JCP 2018 article)?
 I am worried about whether the numerical solutions share the same 
 elastic structure reversibility properties as what is seen physically?
 If the structure solver used a Lagrangian grid, I would not be worried
 about numerical reversibility properties.

question 2: The 2014 article discusses problems in which there is no merging
 or rupture of interfaces.  I wonder if the advantages of high order
 time integration schemes, in which the time step exceeds the characteristic
 surface tension time scale associated with a given grid size, will be
 lost for problems with droplet/bubble merging and/or rupture?  
 The time scales are very fast near rupture, Taylor series 
 analysis in time will show that the benefits of high order in time
 schemes will not be realized near rupture/merge of interfaces.

question 3: The proposers do not discuss dynamic contact angle/triple point
 conditions? In this project, in which there are flexible and switchable
 surfaces, should not dynamic conditions be studied?  For example, how
 much force does it take to pull a flexible solid out of a liquid
 bath with constant velocity?

question 4: The phase field model requires that an interface thickness
 parameter $\epsilon$ be prescribed.  What is the applicants' strategy
 for prescribing this parameter?

(ii) qualification of the applicants.  

The applicants' publication record
and quality of articles published are evidence 
that the applicant is highly
qualified to carry out the proposed project.

(iii) objectives and work program.  

The objectives and work program is
good, but I would have liked to see more planned validation tests
for dynamic contact angle/triple point problems.  Only by testing the
dynamic cases can it be determined if the proposers' numerical tools
properly take into account the atomistic scales (either by model, or
some kind of multiscale method).

(iv) Scientific Contribution of the project to the main aims of 
priority program.  

The project will contribute to predicting the motion
of drops on flexible solids in which the proposed algorithms are
accurate at scales of size of microns.  It is assumed that somehow
experimental results and models (experimental or numerical) at the nanoscale
will be merged with the proposed method.

(v) recommendation: very good.

---------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Brinkmann
University of Saarbrucken

"The proposed project aims to understand the kinetics of certain 
elasto-capillary instabilities from an interplay between the 
deformations of the surface features, the elasticity of the substrate 
material, and the transport of liquid in wetting films during
condensation or evaporation."

"On hydrophilized PDMS samples, we could observe collapse and zipping of 
pairs of flexible lamellae during condensation as well as bundling of 
more than two lamellae during evaporation"

"we intend to perform systematic condensation experiments for various 
geometries of the lamella arrays. This is complemented by
modeling the instability using a long-wavelength approximation 
for the transport of the liquid."

(long-wavelength approximation does not require large computer systems, and
it can be arguably just as accurate as the more complicated CFD models at the
small scales considered)

"Nucleation of the collapsed regions occurs mostly on at the edge of 
the lamella arrays.  On some samples the nucleation occurs also in 
the central part of an array. To further investigate the mechanisms 
that control the nucleation and the further propagation of
the collapsed segments, we intend to fabricate samples with heterogeneous 
lamellae."

"Modeling the zipping dynamics"

"Evaporation from a regular array of hydrophilic lamella"

"Condensation in arrays of partially wettable lamellae"

"Long-wavelength model with contact angle hysteresis"

"Wicking into arrays of flexible posts"

(no switchable or adaptive surfaces in this proposal)

The numerical methodology or modeling is not really new or compelling but at
least it will run fast.

Most phase change occurs at the triple point, does this conflict with the long
wavelength approximation? (see Sato and Niceno, Son and Dhir, etc.)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
i. Quality of the project and the preliminary work.

The following preliminary articles are of high quality:

R. de Ruiter, C. Semprebon, M. van Gorcum, M. H. G. Duits, M Brinkmann, and 
F. Mugele, ``Stability limits of capillary bridges: how contact angle
hysteresis affects morphology transitions of liquid microstructures,'' 
Phys. Rev. Lett. 114: 234501 (2015)

C. Semprebon, C. Herrmann, B-Y Liu, R. Seemann, and M. Brinkmann,
``Shape Evolution of Droplets Growing on Linear Microgrooves,'' 
Langmuir 11: 10498-10511 (2018)

The project is of very good quality but I have some questions regarding the
numerics (the proposed condensation, evaporation, and wicking
experiments on patterned surfaces seem
novel and significant to me).

question 1: The long wavelength model assumes that the interface slopes
have relatively small inclines 
(see Mahady, Afkhami, Kondic 2016 - note: both initial film thickness
and resulting droplet heights are on the scale of nm in this article, but
still the LW approximation had to be abandoned).  
Is this condition satisfied for the physical problem in question?

question 2: I see very little description of accompanying numerical algorithms
 for predicting evaporation, condensation, or the interaction between
 a fluid and flexible/switchable structure.  This catches me by surprise
 since in the objectives section it says that the experiments would be 
 accompanied by simulation.  Condensation and Evaporation processes
 are very difficult to simulate due to not only the wide range of scales
 needed to resolve for simulating contact line dynamics, but also 
 the wide range of scales needed to resolve for predicting the rate 
 of mass transfer near the junction where solid, fluid, vapor meet.  
 Details of numerics for this?

question 3: I could not find where it was explicitly mentioned at which
 scales the proposers would focus on? nanometer scale? micron scale? both?
 How would one bridge the nanometer scale to the micron scale?
 In the article by de Ruiter et al (2015), it is mentioned that a drop
 is in contact with a ``millimeter-sized stainless steel sphere \ldots.''
 In the article by Semprebon et al (2018), the grooved surface had a 
 period of about 10 microns and only very slow flows were considered. 
 In both the articles, static equilibrium numerical models, in contrast
 to dynamic capable models, were considered.  

(ii) qualification of the applicants.  

The applicants' publication record
and quality of articles published are evidence that 
the applicant is 
qualified to carry out the proposed project 
for the experimental part.
As mentioned previously, 2 of the proposers' recent articles implemented
algorithms designed for static or slow moving problems, but in order to
meet the overall objectives of the program, do not the physics of dynamic
contact line/triple point problems need to be met?

(iii) objectives and work program. 
The ojectives and work program for the
experimental part of the proposal are fine, but I could not find enough
detail in the proposal for me to judge the numerics; as stated above,
the long wave length model seems to have limited applicability for the
overall program?

(iv) Scientific Contribution of the project to the main aims of
priority program.  

The project will contribute experiments for the
investigation of evaporation, condensation, and wicking into arrays of
lamella.

(v) recommendation: good.
------------------------------------------------------------------

3. Hardt
University of Darmstadt
Proposal_HA_2696_46_1.pdf

"Experimental and numerical study of wetting
on liquid-infused surfaces: the role of surfactants"

"Furthermore, LISs promote condensation [C2]
and prevent the formation of ice layers [C26]"

"LISs are also candidates for adaptive surfaces, since a component 
dissolved in the droplet can be extracted to
the oil film, thereby modifying its properties."

"LISs qualify as switchable or active surfaces, which has been 
demonstrated using ferrofluids as impregnating liquids [C25]."

"A main objective of the proposed research will be to achieve a 
comprehensive understanding of dynamic wetting on LISs. A special 
focus will be on the role of surfactants."

Hardt: "Figure 5: (a): Key components of the setup for studying dynamic 
wetting on LISs. (b): Optical setup enabling light-sheet imaging."

"H3: Wetting on surfaces infused with a single liquid."

"H4: Dynamic wetting in the presence of surfactant molecules."

"H5: Wetting on surfaces infused with two different liquids."

R1:
Numerics and mathematical model: same CFD as Aland, except level set 
method instead of phase field method (ALE for Aland?).  Slip condition?

"[C53] Y. Yap, H. Li, J. Lou, L. Pan, and Z. Shang. Numerical 
modeling of three-phase flow with phase change using
the level-set method. Int. J. of Heat and Mass Transfer, 115:730–740, 2017."

Starinshak, Karni, et al ?

How is surface tension force found at the triple point? conservation form?
(probably not, see (2))

What is the relative thicknesses of the different layers of fluids?

Disjoining pressure?

Beyond 2021:
"a focus will be on adaptive surfaces that change their properties when 
a component dissolved in a droplet is extracted into the lubricant. It 
will be studied how this process influences dynamic wetting and also 
the interaction between different droplets. Last but not least, the 
photoswitching of surfactants will be studied as a tool for droplet 
manipulation.  Concerning the numerical simulation, the solver components 
described in work packages R4, R5 will be extended such that Marangoni 
stresses in the mass transfer, a dependence of density and viscosity
on the solute concentration, and surfactant transfer between droplet 
surface and lubrication surface can be treated."

volume conservation?

physics based modeling of the contact line dynamics? (see e.g. Afkhami's work)

The numerical methodology or modeling is not really new or compelling.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
i. Quality of the project and the preliminary work.

The following preliminary articles are of high quality:

T. Roy, K. Szuttor, J. Smiatek, C. Holm, and S. Hardt. 
Stretching of surface-tethered polymers in pressure-driven
flow under confinement. Soft Matter, 13:6189–6196, 2017.
(5 micron height of channel, comparison of experiments with a hybrid
MD and LB method)

A. Reusken, X. Xu, and L. Zhang. Finite element methods for a class of 
continuum models for immiscible flows with moving contact lines. 
Int. J. Numer. Meth. Fluids, pages 268–291, 2016.
(Level Set Method, Navier Slip Condition, Scale is unknown, Density
ratio is 2)

M. A. Olshanskii, A. Reusken, and X. Xu. An Eulerian space-time 
finite element method for diffusion problems on
evolving surfaces. SIAM J. Numer. Anal., 52:1354–1377, 2014.

A. Dorr and S. Hardt. Line tension and reduction of apparent 
contact angle associated with electric double layers.
Physics of Fluids, 26:082105, 2014.
(analytical and numerical simulations on the effect of surfactants on the
shape of a static drop on a substrate)

A. A. Eifert, D. Paulssen, S. Varanakkottu, T. Baier, and S. Hardt. 
Simple fabrication of robust water-repellent surfaces with low contact-angle 
hysteresis based on impregnation. Advanced Materials Interfaces, 
1:1300138, 2014.
(Advancing and Receding contact angle for different materials 
impregnated with silicone oil with thickness 2.7 microns? 2.3nm?
~2 mm radius droplets)

The quality of the projects and of the preliminary work is very good:
``A main objective of the proposed research will be to achieve a 
comprehensive understanding of dynamic wetting on LISs. A special 
focus will be on the role of surfactants.'' Also, the proposers discuss the
study of electric-field induced displacement of droplets on liquid
infused surfaces.  

I have two questions:
question 1: In Figures 6-9, I see schematics illustrating 3 fluid materials
along with a triple junction: the droplet, oil (infused layer), and surrounding
fluid.  According to the proposal and also the article by Eifert et al, the
length scale for the droplet is about 1 mm.  According to the article by
Eifert et al, the oil layer thickness is about 3 nm thick? Are the
proposers planning to resolve all the scales from nm to mm?  The required
grid size and time step constraint must be very stringent in order to
properly resolve the balance of viscous and surface tension forces at the
triple point? 

In the article by Mahady, Afkhami, Kondic 2016, they report that both the 
droplet height and film thickness have magnitudes in the 5-100 nm range 
in which they have to use AMR to speed up their simulations.  But for this
proposal, the scales range from nm to mm.  How do the proposers 
intend to address the wider range of scales?

question 2: The level set method is not a volume preserving interface
 tracking method.  The volume errors for two material problems already
 are a problem if one wants to try and compute terminal behavior in
 deforming boundary problems (why the conservative LS method was developed,
 or hybrid LS and VOF methods).  Now, the proposers want to solve problems
 with triple junctions using the LS method.  Why will volume loss over time
 not be a problem?

(ii) qualification of the applicants.  

The two applicants' publication records
and quality of articles published (articles on numerical and
experimental developments) are evidence that 
the applicants are qualified to carry out the proposed project 

(iii) objectives and work program. 

The objectives and work program are a continuation of the proposers'
previous work which is very good.  There are some issues regarding
how to numerically simulate flows containing a triple point using the
level set method, but the reviewer is optimistic that the proposers will
figure something out given their track record.


(iv) Scientific Contribution of the project to the main aims of
priority program.  

The proposed work on the effect of surfactants and external electric
fields on dynamic contact line dynamics on liquid infused surfaces
address the main aims of the priority program.

(v) recommendation: very good.
------------------------------------------------------------------

4. Kummer
University of Darmstadt

DG, CFD

previous work: contact line, level set method, XFEM

"The application perspective for this project, within the scope of the 
Priority Programme, is, but not limited to, flexographic printing."
("flexible solid substrate" (paper?), liquid, gas)

ALE, level sets, XDG

will Newton iteration (20) and (21) converge?

conservation?

slip boundary condition?

volume conservation?

physics based modeling of the contact line dynamics? (see e.g. Afkhami's work)

The numerical methodology or modeling is not really new or compelling.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
i. Quality of the project and the preliminary work.

The following preliminary articles are of high quality:

F. Kummer, ``Extended discontinuous Galerkin methods for two-phase flows: 
the spatial discretization,'' Int. J. Numer. Methods Eng., 
vol. 109, no. 2, pp. 259–289, 2017.
(steady two-phase Taylor Couette flow, density ratio 13, viscosity
ratio 20)

B. Muller, S. Kramer-Eis, F. Kummer and M. Oberlack, ``A high-order 
discontinuous Galerkin method for compressible flows with 
immersed boundaries Int. J. Numer. Methods
Eng., vol. 110, no. 1, pp. 3-30, 2017.
(flow past airfoil, flow over bump, cell agglomeration, XDG)

F. Kummer, B. Müller and T. Utz, ``Time integration for extended discontinuous
Galerkin methods with moving domains,'' Int. J. Numer. Methods Eng., 
vol. 113, no. 5, pp. 767–788, 2017.

D. Krause and F. Kummer, ``An incompressible immersed boundary solver for 
moving body flows using a cut cell discontinuous Galerkin method,''
Computers and Fluids, vol. 153, pp. 118–129, 2017.
(settling particle, oscillating cylinder, rotating cylinder)

The project is of very good quality but I have some questions.

question 1: Saye has written two more articles that the proposer is not
 aware of:
(a) ``Implicit mesh discontinuous Galerkin methods and interfacial
gauge methods for high-order accurate interface dynamics,
with applications to surface tension dynamics, rigid body
fluid–structure interaction, and free surface flow: Part I'' and
(b) ``Implicit mesh discontinuous Galerkin methods and interfacial
gauge methods for high-order accurate interface dynamics,
with applications to surface tension dynamics, rigid body
fluid–structure interaction, and free surface flow: Part II'', which appeared
in JCP, 2017.  
My first question is this: for the problems proposed to be
numerically simulated, what evidence is there in Saye's Part II article
that the high order spectral method will give better accuracy per grid
cell than a low order, sharp interface method?  I ask this question 
since the higher the order, the worse conditioned the matrix solver? 
Wouldn't large density ratio problems or FSI problems exacerbate the problem?
For the DG algorithm, is the matrix system to be inverted symmetric? 
Can MGPCG be used?  Also, 
I look at Figure 6 of the proposal, and
it looks to me that at the points where interfaces first come in contact
with the flexible substrate, the space 
and time grid will always be underresolved.  Wouldn't an underresolved
grid negate any advantage of a high order method?

question 2: The applicant is proposing a DG method with spectral accuracy
 even in mixed elements.  This means that one will have the flexibility
 to specify first, second, third, fourth, or higher order in an element. 
 What is expected to be the optimal order? in space? in time? What about
 in unmixed elements?

question 3: The level set method is not a volume preserving interface
 tracking method.  The volume errors for two material problems already
 are a problem if one wants to try and compute terminal behavior in
 deforming boundary problems (why the conservative LS method was developed,
 or hybrid LS and VOF methods).  Now, the proposers want to solve dynamic
 contact line problems using the LS method.  Why will volume loss over time
 not be a problem?

(ii) qualification of the applicants.  

The applicants' publication record
and quality of articles published 
are evidence that 
the applicants are qualified to carry 
out the proposed project 

(iii) objectives and work program.  

The objectives and work program for simulating 3 phase systems with a 
flexible substrate is good.

(iv) Scientific Contribution of the project to the main aims of 
priority program.  

The main aims of the priority program will be met, albeit I could not find
serious discussion addressing the wide range of scales that appear in
dynamic contact line or dynamic triple point problems.  Considering the
size and complexity of Saye's papers 1 and 2 (in which contact line dynamics
or triple point dynamics were not considered), I am worried that the 
applicants will not finish in 4 years.  More realistically, this is a
6 year project.

(v) recommendation: Very Good.


---------------------------------------------------------------------

5. Lecrivain
University of Dresden

Phase field method - thickness parameter? For liquid infused surfaces, what is
thickness of infused liquid?

"Task 1.1: Extension to a ternary fluid model. The available ternary Fluid/Fluid/Solid Cahn-Hilliard"

"Task 1.2: Liquid droplet at rest on an oil-infused substrate"

"Task 1.3: Damped oscillations of an air droplet at a water-oil interface."

"Task 2.1: Trapping, rebound, and tunnelling of a single droplet."

"Task 2.2: Droplet bouncing off a vibrating fluidic substrate."

"Task 2.3: Spontaneous re-arrangement of multiple droplets."

"Task 3.1: Effect of the film height on droplet impact."

"Task 3.2: Dynamics of multiple impacting droplets."

Is fluid B an elastic material? if yes, then is method reversible for this
material?

reference Singapore article on phase field method for ternary system?

volume not conserved (albeit mass is, and volume error is small ?)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
i. Quality of the project and the preliminary work.

The following preliminary articles are of high quality:

Lecrivain, G., Rayan, R, et al., ``Using quasi-DNS to investigate the 
deposition of elongated aerosol particles in a wavy channel flow,'' 
Computers & Fluids 124 (2016), 78-85.
(fluid is incompressible)

Lecrivain, G., Petrucci, G., et al., ``Attachment of solid elongated 
particles on the surface of a stationary gas bubble.'' 
International Journal of Multiphase Flow 71 (2015), 83-93.
(stationary spherical gas bubble)

Lecrivain, G., Yamamoto, R., et al., ``Direct numerical simulation of 
a particle attachment to an immersed bubble.'' 
Physics of Fluids 28 (2016), 083301.
(spherical particles, phase field method for gas-liquid fluids)

Lecrivain, G., Yamamoto, R., et al., ``Direct numerical simulation 
of an arbitrarily shaped particle at a fluidic interface.'' 
Physical Review E 95 (2017), 063107.
(incompressible fluids, phase field method for gas-liquid interface, dynamic
contact angle condition? or is flow slow enough or particles small enough 
that static condition is sufficient?)

Lecrivain, G., Kotani, Y., et al., ``Diffuse interface model to 
simulate the rise of a fluid droplet across a cloud of particles.'' 
Physical Review Fluids 3 (2018), 094002.
(incompressible fluids, phase field method for gas-liquid interface, dynamic
contact angle condition? or is flow slow enough or particles small enough 
that static condition is sufficient?)

The project is of good quality but I have some questions.

question 1: The phase field model requires that interface thickness
 parameter(s) $\epsilon$ be prescribed.  What is the applicants' strategy
 for prescribing these parameters?

question 2: Do the applicants intend to simulate dynamics of drops on liquid
 infused surfaces (or drops impacting a flexible substrate) at the nanoscale
 or micron scale or both? i.e., I could not find much discussion on the
 applicants strategy for dynamic contact line or dynamic triple point models.

question 3: What are the details of the FSI algorithm used to simulate the
 problem illustrated in Figure 11 of the proposal?

(ii) qualification of the applicants.  

The applicants' publication record
and quality of articles published are evidence 
that the applicant is highly
qualified to carry out the proposed project.

(iii) objectives and work program.  

The objectives and work program is good.  There are numerous articles
describing phase field methods for ternary configurations.  It should
not be too difficult to extend from 2 fluids to 3.  I would have liked
to see more details for the strategy to assign values to the
thickness parameter $\epsilon$.  Also I would have liked to see more
information regarding the proposed FSI algorithm.  I was caught by 
surprise because Figure 11 shows a drop impacting a flexible elastic substrate,
but the applicant does not have this item in the list of work programs.

(iv) Scientific Contribution of the project to the main aims of 
priority program.  

The project has 3 parts which are partially relevant to the program:
(a) development of a ternary fluid model.
(b) droplet impact with a fluidic interface
(c) droplet impact with a hard substrate covered by a thin liquid.

I am surprised that in the work plan section, I did not see much information
on the details of a dynamic contact line algorithm, or dynamic triple point
algorithm.

(v) recommendation:  Good.


---------------------------------------------------------------------

6. Metzger
University of Erlangen

section 1.1.1: two-phase flow using the phase field
  interface representation; dynamic contact angle is
  ignored.

section 1.1.3: how can lubrication approximation be used if the
contact angle transitions from the "static" angle to the "apparent" angle
from a distance of a few nanometers from the substrate (or thin film)
to a few microns?  The ratio of the vertical scale to the horizontal
scale is not small.

section 2.2.1: Micro-macro models for fluid-substrate interactions

   The dynamic ("apparent") contact angle or triple point condition is 
   ignored.  (just 1 angle in figure 4)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
i. Quality of the project and the preliminary work.

The following preliminary articles are of high quality:

Stefan Metzger, ``On convergent schemes for two-phase flow of 
dilute polymeric solutions,'' ESIAM: Mathematical Modelling and Numerical
Analysis, 52(6), 2357-2408 (2018)

Stefan Metzger, ``On stable, dissipation reducing splitting schemes
for two-phase flow of electrolyte solutions,'' Numerical Algorithms,
First Online: 23 April 2018.
(analysis of diffuse interface model for simulating two fluid flows of
electrolyte solutions)

G. Grun, S. Metzger, Micro-Macro-Models for Two-Phase Flow of Dilute 
Polymeric Solutions: Macroscopic Limit, Analysis, and Numerics, 
Chapter in Transport Processes at Fluidic Interfaces, Springer 
International Publishing, 2017, 291-304.
(diffuse-interface model for two-phase flow of incompressible 
fluids with dissolved noninteracting polymers)

H. Abels, H. Garcke, G. Grün, and S. Metzger, Diffuse interface models 
for incompressible two-phase flows with different densities, 
Chapter in Transport Processes at Fluidic
Interfaces, Springer International Publishing, 2017, 203–229.

G. Grun, F. Guillen-Gonzalez, and S. Metzger, On fully decoupled, 
convergent schemes for diffuse interface models for two-phase 
flow with general mass densities, Communications
in Computational Physics 19, (2016), no. 5, 1473-1502.
(diffuse interface model, drop sliding down slope, contact angle hysteresis
capable model?, density ratio 10 to 1, macroscopic contact angle)

S. Metzger, On numerical schemes for phase-field models for electrowetting 
with electrolyte solutions, Proceedings in Applied Mathematics and 
Mechanics 15 (2015), no. 1, 715-718.
(drop on surface, break-up of electrolyte droplet in an electric field, 
density and viscosity ratios are one)

The project is of good quality but I have some questions.

question 1: How is the applicant going to use the information from
 the lubrication approximation analysis in order to resolve the
 ``contact line singularity'' for a macro-scale model if the apparent
 angle is greater than, say, 90 degrees?  This point was
 not made clear to me in the proposal.
 For example, in typical
 dynamic contact line models (at the scale of microns), 
 practitioners prescribe an ``effective'' 
 contact angle (and a slip condition) that depends on the tangential 
 velocity near the wall.  
 (see Figures 28 and 30 of Bonn et al, ``Wetting and Spreading'' (2009),
  or Figure 14 of Cantat, ``Liquid meniscus friction on a wet plate:
  Bubbles, lamellae, and foams'' (2013), or Figure 3 (illustration
  of the wide range of scales) of
  Dupont and Legendre, ``Numerical simulation of static and sliding 
  drop with contact angle hysteresis'' (2010),
  or Figure 7 of ``Sliding of Liquid Drops Down an Inclined Solid Surface''
  (2002)).

question 3: Phase field (diffuse interface)
 models require that an interface thickness
 parameter $\epsilon$ be prescribed.  What is the applicants' strategy
 for prescribing this parameter?

(ii) qualification of the applicants.  

The applicants' publication record
and quality of articles published are evidence 
that the applicant is 
qualified to carry out the proposed project.

(iii) objectives and work program.  

The applicant correctly points out in the proposal that one cannot possibly
simulate all the appropriate scales (from the nanometer scale to the 
micron scale) with a single monolithic method.  Also, it is agreed that
if one were to develop a single ``monolithic'' method, the method would
not only have to resolve the wide range of spatial scales, but also must
take very small time steps.

What the referee does not see in the work program though, is a viable
strategy for using information derived at the small scales in order
to parameterize an algorithm designed for the ``macro'' scale.

(iv) Scientific Contribution of the project to the main aims of 
priority program.  

The study of the multiscale aspects of dynamic contact angle conditions and
the effect of an electric field address the priority program.  I could not
find a plan for predicting drop motion on a flexible substrate.

(v) recommendation: Good


---------------------------------------------------------------------

7. Nair
University of Erlangen

Scales? The contact angle variation spans the nanoscale to the microscale?
How many particles are needed?

The project aims at optimizing HAR microstructures 
(also known as micropillar sub-
strates), in terms of pillar density, 
aspect ratio and bending strength, for increased hy-
drophobicity and reduced hysteresis, using three 
dimensional particle based meshless
simulations.

a) Work package # 1 (WP1)
Rigid micropillar array
Duration: 0.5 years

b) Work package # 2 (WP2)
Flexible micropillar array
Duration: 1.5 years

c) Work package # 3 (WP3)
Effect of drop dynamics on aggregation of micopillars
Duration: 1 years

----------------------------------------------------------------------
i. Quality of the project and the preliminary work.

The following preliminary articles are of high quality:

M. Blank, P. Nair, and T. Poschel. ``Capillary viscous flow and melting 
dynamics: Coupled simulations for additive manufacturing applications.'' 
International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer, 131 (2019), 1232-1246.
(SPH for the melting of a single object or a group of consecutive objects)

P. Nair and T. Poschel. ``Dynamic capillary phenomena using Incompressible
SPH.'' Chemical Engineering Science 176 (2018), pp. 192–204.
(SPH for capillary tube (.5 mm diameter) or liquid bridge (50 micron drop
diameter))

P. Nair and G. Tomar. ``A study of energy transfer during water entry of 
solids using incompressible SPH simulations.'' 
Sadhana 42.4 (2017), pp. 517–531.
(SPH for 1in 1.6 m/s solid sphere falling in water)

P. Nair and G. Tomar. ``Volume conservation issues in incompressible 
smoothed particle hydrodynamics.'' J Comp. Phys. 297 (2015), pp. 689–699.
(algorithm for improving volume preserving characteristics of an SPH method)

It is proposed to simulate contact line dynamics for drops on (flexible)
high aspect ratio microstructures.  The project is original and can be
significant.  Also, the project addresses the main themes of the priority
program.  I have the following questions:

question 1: In previous work by the applicant, the scales addressed were
 on the order of microns and then some kind of model (either implicitly or
 explicitly intended) must have been put into place in order to simulate
 the interaction between the nanoscale and the micron scale.  For this
 proposal, at which scales will computations take place?  Or will the 
 applicant attempt to resolve all the scales from the nanoscale to the 
 micronscale?

question 2: The article by Nair and Tomar (JCP, 2015) improves the 
 volume preservation properties of their SPH algorithm, but does not
 remove the volume error.  Will volume conservation be a problem for 
 the proposed project? (it is not addressed in the proposal)


(ii) qualification of the applicants.  

The applicants' publication record
and quality of articles published are evidence 
that the applicant is 
qualified to carry out the proposed project.


(iii) objectives and work program.  

Overall, I really like the objectives and work program.  I have never
seen a nice validated simulation of contact line dynamics on flexible
hairs (flexible pillars)
as proposed here.  I would have liked to see a better, more realistic,
explanation of which scales will be resolved and which will be modeled.

(iv) Scientific Contribution of the project to the main aims of 
priority program.  

The project directly addresses the main themes of the priority program.
This is the only project from my batch that addresses the problem
of contact line dynamics on hairs (flexible micropillars)

(v) recommendation:  Outstanding.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

8. Peschka
University of Berlin

Scales? The contact angle variation spans the nanoscale to the microscale?


Numerical Methods for Free Boundary Problems with 
Contact Lines: Fluid flows with mov-
ing domains are modeled either using diffuse or 
sharp interface representations. This proposal
will focus on the latter and use interface-tracking 
and ALE methods 2 with conforming finite-
elements.

WP1: Development of advanced theoretical and numerical 
methods for long-wave modelling
with moving contact lines as the basis 
for multiphysics models to be used within the SPP.

Task WP1-1: Develop macroscopic long-wave 
theory and models with moving contact lines to
2D/3D flows with contact angle dynamics with 
smooth and hysteretic behaviour. (3 months)

Task WP1-2: Develop finite-element based tools 
to solve these problems using higher-order
methods in space and time with sharp-interface 
ALE methods. (6 months)

Task WP1-3: Develop a benchmark for free boundary 
problem with dynamic contact angles to
numerical predictions of other groups within the SPP. (1 month)

WP2: Extension of the long-wave toolbox to a unified 
theoretical framework of coupled multi-
phase reactive transport with moving contact lines, 
where constituents are defined separately in
the fluid, in the substrate, on interfaces, or at contact lines.


Task WP2-2: Develop a general numerical finite-element 
based framework for fluid-substrate
coupling with moving contact lines. (4 months)
Task WP3-3: Model surfactant transport (soluble and insoluble) (4 months).

Task WP3-4: Modeling of elastic/deformable substrates 
with moving contact lines (4 months).


----------------------------------------------------------------------
i. Quality of the project and the preliminary work.

The following preliminary articles are of high quality:

S. Jachalski, D. Peschka, A. Munch, and B. Wagner, ``Impact of interfacial 
slip on the stability of liquid two-layer polymer films,'' 
J. Eng. Math., vol. 86, 2014.
(z=h1(t,x) and z=h2(t,x) delineate the layers)
(note, this kind of problem has been addressed using VOF which does not
 make a thin film approximation: 
 Afkhami and Kondic (2015) ``On the dewetting of liquefied metal 
 nanostructures)

R. Huth, S. Jachalski, G. Kitavtsev, and D. Peschka, ``Gradient flow 
perspective on thin-film bilayer flows,'' J. Eng. Math., vol. 94, 2015.
(z=h1(t,x) thickness of liquid substrate, z=h(t,x) thickness of the 
liquid film)

D. Peschka, ``Variational approach to contact line dynamics for 
thin films,'' Physics of Fluids, volume 30, 082115 (2018)
(thin film (lubrication) model, Figure 3, 60 degrees)
(assumed that vertical scale much smaller than the horizontal)
(approximation still valid at the contact line?)
(why not do hybrid VOF and lubrication theory model?)

S. Jachalski, R. Huth, G. Kitavtsev, D. Peschka, and B. Wagner, 
``Stationary solutions of liquid two-layer thin-film models,'' 
SIAM J. on Appl. Math., vol. 73(3), 1183-1202 (2013).
(3 height functions, $h_1$, $h_{\ast}$, and $h_2$, opening angle(s) are
small))

It is proposed to further develop the applicants' algorithms for simulating 
moving contact line dynamics.  It is proposed to improve the modeling
of hysteretic behavior, include the effects of surfactant transport, and
include the effects of an elastic/deformable substrate.  Also, in order
to improve the resolution of the contact line, it is proposed to develop
a high order interface-tracking ALE method.  

question 1:
The applicant will be improving algorithms that use the thin-film/long 
wave approximation.   Thin film approximations, while being very efficient,
are only designed for problems with relatively small static angles.  
What if the static angle is near or greater than 90 degrees?

question 2:
How will one use the results from the proposed work in order to improve
the modeling of contact line dynamics at the micron sized scales?


(ii) qualification of the applicants.  

The applicants' publication record
and quality of articles published are evidence 
that the applicant is qualified to carry out 
the proposed project.

(iii) objectives and work program.  

The objectives and work program is ok, except that I could not find
how one can use the proposed research to bridge scales from the
nano-scale to micron sized scales.  Also, the priority program description
included phenomena such as contact line dynamics on a bed of flexible
hairs, but such a simulation tool would not be able to use 
thin-film/long wavelength models.

(iv) Scientific Contribution of the project to the main aims of 
priority program.  

It is proposed to improve the long wave approximation for modeling
contact line hysterisis and
including the effects of surfactant transport.  These topics address
the aims of the priority program.  It could not be found in the proposal
a sufficient description of new developments that would address the
cases in which contact line dynamics
are not inline with the long wave/thin film approximation.  Also
it could not be found in the proposal a sufficient
description of new developments for the interaction of a flexible 
substrate with a deforming (sliding) drop.

(v) recommendation: Good.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

9. Thiele
University of Munster

Note: if a student develops a hybrid thin film, CLSVOF (or phase field
or conservative LS), Eulerian-Lagrangian FSI, AMR code with surfactant, 
phase change, and contact line dynamic modeling, they are prepared for 
a productive career in science or industry. (include perhaps machine 
learning for approximating interface slopes and curvature too)


So how are all the models going to be connected? (nanoscale, mesoscale,
microscale)
 
Why not use AMR using curvature as AMR criterion? (sharp interface
formulation) An operator 
split projection method
implicitly avoids the no-slip problem?
 
or

Interface at nanoscale shows a tank-treading motion in which there is
NO-SLIP and atoms are deposited to the leading edge of the drop while
atoms are dewetted from the trailing edge.  Best method would be a
phase field method in which mu=O(sqrt(delta x)) and do AMR with sub-cycling
since co-dimension 2 segment of domain is adapted.  (or maybe use Afkhami's
model at the finest level and use a smeared interface algorithm at other
levels in order to avoid coarse-fine grid difficulties)
 
Then test the method for the force required to pull a cylindrical solid
out of a cylindrical liquid bath at some prescribed velocity.  Then
test for a deformable cylindrical solid.  (axisymmetric is faster)
 
Note: use body fitted interface representation?

or ... stretched grids + body fitted?

(iii) Our mesoscopic models and results shall on the one hand at 
moderate contact angles be matched with several macroscopic 
approaches pursued within the SPP for related systems:
Navier-Stokes, Lattice-Boltzmann, Stokes, dissipative-particle dynamics, 
coupled finite-element/-
lubrication models, phase-field models (Gambaryan-Roisman, 
Harting, Peschka, Stark, Voigt,
Vollmer/Schmid). On the other hand we plan to 
obtain wetting and interface energies via parameter
passing from microscopic models: kinetic Monte-Carlo, 
Molecular Dynamics, Density Functional
Theory (e.g., Gurevich/Heuer, Müller/Tanaka within the SPP and Archer, UK

See: Proposal_GU_1455_3_1.pdf (a multiscale approach)
     Proposal_MU_1674_17_1.pdf (another multiscale approach)


----------------------------------------------------------------------
i. Quality of the project and the preliminary work.

The following preliminary articles are of high quality:

[A1] U. Thiele. Patterned deposition at moving contact line. 
Adv. Colloid Interface Sci., 206:399–413, 2014.

[A2] U. Thiele. Recent advances in and future challenges for 
mesoscopic hydrodynamic modelling of complex wetting. 
Colloids Surf. A, 553:487–495, 2018.

[A3] U. Thiele, D. V. Todorova, and H. Lopez. Gradient dynamics 
description for films of mixtures and suspensions: Dewetting 
triggered by coupled film height and concentration fluctuations. 
Phys.  Rev. Lett., 111:117801, 2013.
(analyze stability of thin liquid films using thin film model)

[A4] U. Thiele, A. Archer, and L. Pismen. Gradient dynamics models 
for liquid films with soluble surfactant. Phys. Rev. Fluids, 1:083903, 2016.

[A5] S. Engelnkemper, M. Wilczek, S. V. Gurevich, and U. Thiele. 
Morphological transitions of sliding drops - dynamics and bifurcations. 
Phys. Rev. Fluids, 1:073901, 2016.

[A6] M. Wilczek, W. Tewes, S. Engelnkemper, S. V. Gurevich, and U. Thiele. 
Sliding drops - ensemble statistics from single drop bifurcations. 
Phys. Rev. Lett., 119:204501, 2017.
(ensembles and coarsening of interacting drops sliding down inclined plane)

[A7] S. Trinschek, K. John, S. Lecuyer, and U. Thiele. Continuous vs. 
arrested spreading of biofilms at solid-gas interfaces - the role of 
surface forces. Phys. Rev. Lett., 119:078003, 2017.

[A8] U. Thiele, J. Snoeijer, S. Trinschek, and K. John. Equilibrium 
contact angle and adsorption layer properties with surfactants. 
Langmuir, 34:7210–7221, 2018.

[A9] X. Xu, U. Thiele, and T. Qian. A variational approach to thin 
film hydrodynamics of binary mixtures. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter, 
27:085005, 2015.

[A10] H. Yin, D. Sibley, U. Thiele, and A. Archer. Films, layers and 
droplets: The effect of near-wall fluid structure on spreading dynamics. 
Phys. Rev. E, 95:023104, 2017.

[46] A. von Borries Lopes, U. Thiele, and A. Hazel. On the multiple 
solutions of coating and rimming flows on rotating cylinders. 
J. Fluid Mech., 835:540–574, 2018.

As the applicant says, ``In this project we aim at developing and 
employing a set of generic mesoscopic continuum models
for the (de)wetting dynamics of liquids on substrates with 
adaptive topography and wettability.'' The strategy of the applicant
is to use the thin film/long wave approximation in order to 
meet the proposed objectives.  The thin film approximation
is efficient, and has allowed the applicant to carry out
numerical studies that could not otherwise be practically
simulated.  For example, the applicant used the thin film approximation
to efficiently simulate contact line dynamics for an ensemble
of droplets (see [A6]) and in another article, the applicant used
the thin film approximation when performing a thorough parameter
sensitivity study (stability analysis) for a thin film breaking
up into droplets (see [A3]).

The thin film approximation has drawbacks though and the proposer 
acknowledges these drawbacks:
``Often, experiments are performed for material combinations that
result in contact angles that are not small. In contrast, standard
asymptotic thin-film models are only strictly valid at small angles.
Nevertheless, often they show quite good agreement with
experiments/simulations at moderate angles. Within the gradient
dynamics approach, this can sometimes be strongly improved by
employing better approximations for the energy functional
(e.g., `full curvature trick') while keeping the mobilities of
the asymptotic model (see, e.g., [46] and discussion in [A2]).''

I like this proposal, but I would have liked it better if the applicant
had also proposed some kind of novel hybrid method that used the long
wave approximation away from contact lines, and then somehow transitioned
to either a Level Set, SPH, phase field, volume-of-fluid, or 
Lattice Boltzmann at the contact line (taking into account
forces at the atomistic scale - as was done by Mahady et al).  
A comparison between a purely
thin-film approximation and a hybrid
approach would have been interesting.  Also, I am worried about how
realistic modeling the ``polymer brush'' (which is meant to sit on
top of a solid substrate) by way of an order parameter
field $\psi(x,t)$ (WP 1.1) will be.   I would have liked to have also
seen a non-field-based approach proposed 
for modeling the flexible micro pillars.

(ii) qualification of the applicants.  

The applicants' publication record
and quality of articles published are evidence 
that the applicant is qualified to carry out 
the proposed project.

(iii) objectives and work program.  

The objectives and work program is ok, except that I could not find
how one can use the proposed research to bridge scales from the
nano-scale to micron sized scales.  Only briefly, in sections
WP4.2 and section 2.8, does the applicant discuss 
how to match the proposed
``mesoscopic'' approaches with ``macroscopic'' approaches 
developed by other participants in the priority program.

(iv) Scientific Contribution of the project to the main aims of 
priority program.  

For applications in which the 
thin-film hydrodynamic assumptions are met, 
the proposed research directly addresses the mission of the priority 
program ``Dynamic wetting of flexible, adaptive, and switchable 
surfaces.''

(v) recommendation:  very good.

----------------------------------------------------------------------



